Last week you saw the [revival of the Sheffield Parkour Diaries](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cNLh3FhFMt0).
This week I'm bringing you a parkour
special edition of the recently-revived diaries with episode 15, edited by yours truly. It contains
90% parkour and just 10% silliness and promises to be entertaining and inspiring. This is a showcase
of the movements we have accomplished during this week's training, and features training at the
University of Sheffield English Department and also Tapton Flats, an abandoned estate outside the
city centre of Sheffield. I hope you enjoy the video.

<figure class="wp-block-image">
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/hzbfN3S8ngQ?si=6Hgzi0oGAsqfyM8Z" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</figure>

It's been a great week of training. Tuesday was horrible weather but a great session nonetheless,
then we met up again on Friday and had the sickest day of training I've had in ages (in glorious
weather too) and again on Saturday when we did some cool stuff even though we were very tired, but
enjoyed the company of the group, talked about parkour and other stuff and had a great day.

One thing I feel I ought to mention is that I had a pretty bad fall on Tuesday. I wasn't hurt,
injured or damaged in any way, but the potential was there. I did an arm-to-arm (as seen
successfully executed in the video at 4:46) at Tapton Flats and it felt really good so I was raving
to Will and Danny about it; they seemed a little less enthusiastic and weren't really up for giving
it a try - for some reason this irritated me and I made it my mission to persuade them that it was
fun and that they should try it. I was just on a buzz from this movement I'd seen, done and enjoyed.
I started to get a little arrogant about it, which is odd, and did it again, but somehow slipped on
take-off, missed the other wall and slid down it to the floor. It's probably a 10 or 12 foot drop
from where I took off, and I slid down the side of the wall I'd failed to catch the top of, landed
on my feet thinking myself lucky. I came down from the buzz and chilled myself out. The other guys
tried it eventually (with a little more care than my second attempt) and found it fine.

This led me on to the point of discussion with Danny that parkour gives you a sense of immediate
recovery. In a situation where you fall or slip (even in normal life situations other than
training), your inner parkour comes into play and adjusts your body to where it needs to be to
prevent injury. You just suddenly become aware that you are falling and in potential danger and you
immediately and sub-conciously do whatever it takes to stop yourself; whether you need to put your
arms and legs out, take a drop or force a roll, you just do it. This is like an extension of natural
reflexes such as shutting your eyes to shield from something, ducking from something, putting your
hands in front of your face or whatever. Parkour just gives us that edge, from all the practise of
movements and being in unusual positions where accidents can easily happen, we're just used to
adjusting quickly to defend ourselves from pain.

I used Windows Movie Maker to edit the video; I think it's a great piece of software to use, or at
least it would be if it didn't crash every two minutes. I'm not kidding. I would be dragging a clip
into the storyboard and then click to view the next one and ... FREEZE. Damn. I'd have to Ctrl +
Alt + Del it and end the process. Then open up again, locate the project file, wait for it to load,
hope that it worked and that I hadn't lost too much in the process. It's so temperamental! And
incredibly hypersensitive. It just doesn't like you clicking something while it's doing something
else, and instead of just ignoring you it simply freezes and there's no solution other than to close
it down by means mentioned earlier, and waiting for it to load up again. That's the last time I use
WMM for anything. I've used Adobe Premier and Adobe Premier Pro before (Pro was just annoying, as if
they'd removed the useful features) but it's a massive application to run so not really the best
option for me at the moment. I've heard good things about other software, so if anyone has any
recommendations (except Paul telling me to get a Mac) they would be more than welcome.